---
source: https://corsi.unisa.it/uploads/rescue/__piano-studi-cds/2023/88605.pdf
found_in: https://corsi.unisa.it/ingegneria-dell-informazione/didattica/piano-di-studi?anno=2023
type: pdf
---

 Study plan By completing an activity, students get awarded ECTS-credit points (in Italian, Credito Formativo Universitario - CFU). Every CFU represents the amount of accomplished workload: 1 CFU = 25 hours; 1 year = 60 CFUs = 1500 hours. For the courses offered to PhD students there will be 6 hours of classes for each CFU, the other 19 hours will be reserved to independent studies, homework, assigned projects  Mandatory learning activities Activity description SSD CFU/Lecture hours Year Notes Scientific Writing and Publishing  3 CFU / 18 hours 1  Advanced Machine Learning ING-INF/05 3 CFU / 18 hours 1 See (1) below Optimization Techniques for Engineers MAT/09 3 CFU / 18 hours 1  for the curriculum: Computer and Information Systems Engineering: Computational Paradigms for Problem Solving ING-INF/05  3 CFU / 18 hours  1  See (3) below  for the curriculum: Information Technologies for Digital Medicine: Advanced AI for Digital Medicine Funding and Management of Research Projects  3 CFU / 18 hours 2  Exploitation of Research Results  3 CFU / 18 hours 2  Other learning activities Activity description SSD CFU Year Notes English Language (CEFR C1 level)  6 CFU 1-2 See (2) below Elective activities: Master degree courses of the University of Salerno; other  learning activities at a Master or Doctorate level providing a certified number of CFU 
Depends on the selected activities 0<=X<=12 CFU 1-2 See (1) below 
Independent Learning (study of scientific and technical literature; includes mandatory seminars attendance and support to teaching activities) 
Depends on the SSD of the Advisor(s) 36-X CFU 1-2  
Total of learning activities 60 CFU  See (4) below Research activities Activity description  CFU Year Notes Research secondment period abroad (min. 6 months, max. 18 total months);   30<=Y<=90 CFU 2-3  Supervised research activities (includes attending international conferences, at least once as presenting author, and the mandatory submission of at least one paper related to the PhD thesis, accepted for an international conference or journal listed in the Scopus or Wos databases). May include stages in Italian or foreign companies or institutions. 
 110-Y CFU 1-2-3  
Total of research activities 110 CFU   Drafting of the Doctorate Thesis (in English)  10 CFU 3  Total of activities 180 CFU    Note (1): For students without a background in Machine Learning this course will be replaced by a Machine Learning course (9 CFU) of the Master Degree in Computer Engineering and the Elective Learning Activities will be limited to 6 CFUs. For students of the curriculum “Information Technologies for Digital Medicine”, it is recommended to include the course on “Embedded Systems for E-Health” if the student has had no previous learning on embedded systems. 

Note (2): For foreign students from Countries where English is an official language the activity will be Italian language (level B1 CEFR at least). Note (3): Depending on the curriculum to which the student is assigned, one of the following course is mandatory: for the curriculum Computer and Information Systems Engineering, the course “Computational Paradigms for Problem Solving”; for the curriculum Information Technologies for Digital Medicine, the course “Advanced AI for Digital Medicine”. Note (4): All learning activities, including related assessments, have to be completed by the end of the second year.   

PhD program activities  Advanced machine learning Learning outcomes: To understand the theoretical foundations and the expected advantages (and disadvantages) of the state-of-the-art deep learning architectures. To understand the main limitations of traditional training processes, and the techniques proposed for improving the training effectiveness. To be able to choose or design an effective architecture for a complex problem; to design a learning system for processing non-vectorial data (sequences, trees or graphs); to exploit advanced techniques for accelerating the convergence of the training process for a complex architecture, or for transferring the knowledge learned in a different domain to a new problem.  Computational paradigms for problem solving Learning outcomes: To understand the main computational paradigms (a.k.a. computational styles): imperative, functional, logic, object-oriented, event-driven, concurrent. To be able to analyze and solve practical problems by recurring to the most suitable computational paradigm.  Advanced AI for Digital Medicine Learning outcomes: To understand and to be able to apply state-of-the-art Artificial Intelligence / Machine Learning methodologies for the analysis and processing of medical data (e.g. genomic information, medical images, wearable sensors data) to support diagnosis, therapy personalization and patient care. To understand and to be able to take into account the constraints on AI methodologies that arise in the Digital Medicine domain, such as the need for explainability of the system output, and the ability to operate on limited/partial data to preserve patient privacy.   Drafting of the Doctorate Thesis Learning outcomes: To be able to correctly and effectively structure and present the research methodology carried on and the obtained results. To demonstrate knowledge of the scientific state of the art. To show awareness of the relevance of theories and methods in relation to the research topic.  English language Learning outcomes: To be able to understand a wide range of demanding, longer clauses, and recognize implicit meaning. To be able to express ideas fluently and spontaneously without much obvious searching for expressions. To be able to use language flexibly and effectively for social, academic and professional purposes. To be able to produce clear, well-structured, detailed text on complex subjects, showing controlled use of organizational patterns, connectors and cohesive devices. To reach the CEFR C1 level (Effective Operational Proficiency, i.e. experienced enough to conduct PhD-related activities in English).  Exploitation of research results Learning outcomes: To have a knowledge of the basic concepts regarding knowledge transfer. To be able to conduct contract and collaborative research. To be able to begin a patenting or licensing process. To be able to begin the process of creating a new company.  Funding and management of research projects Learning outcomes: To have a knowledge about funding opportunities (where to find funding for your own research). To be able to write an effective research proposal for an international research call (how to get funding). To be able to manage research activities (you have been funded; and now?).  Independent learning Learning outcomes: To have a thorough knowledge of the literature and a comprehensive understanding of scientific methods and techniques applicable to his/her own research.  Italian language Learning outcomes: To be able to understand the main points of clear standard input on familiar matters regularly encountered in work, school, leisure, etc. To be able to deal with most situations likely to arise while living in Italy. To be able to produce simple connected text on topics that are familiar or of personal interest. To be able to describe experiences and events. To reach the CEFR B1 level (Intermediate) at least.  Optimization Techniques for Engineers Learning outcomes: To be able to formulate real world optimization problems and incorporate uncertainty. To be able to implement optimization solvers. To be able to convert problems to their dual formulation. To be able to prove basic results on convex optimization. 

 Research secondment period abroad Learning outcomes: In addition to those of supervised research activities, to improve professional communication, presentation and interpersonal skills, networking skills in another research environment and social context. To develop resilience through coping with adversity or challenging circumstances. To increase awareness of and sensitivity to other cultural customs and norms.   Scientific Writing and Publishing Learning outcomes: To have a knowledge of the main types of technical and scientific documentation. To be able to conduct a bibliographic research. To be able to write a scientific article, a research proposal, a review, a technical presentation.  Supervised research activities Learning outcomes: To be able to demonstrate originality in the application of knowledge, together with a practical understanding of how research are used to create and interpret knowledge in his/her field. To have developed the ability to critically evaluate current research and research techniques and methodologies. To have self-direction and originality in tackling and solving problems. To be able to act autonomously in the planning and implementation of research. To have gained oral presentation and scientific writing skills. To have effectively disseminate the results of the research activity. 