---
source: https://corsi.unisa.it/uploads/rescue/499/9038/regolamento-ciclo-41-approvato-collegio-41-24032026.pdf
found_in: https://corsi.unisa.it/photovoltaics/didattica/regolamenti
type: pdf
---

University of Salerno PhD PROGRAM IN “PHOTOVOLTAICS”  RULES AND REGULATIONS Article 1 SCOPE 1. This document presents the rules and regulations for the Dottorato di Ricerca in “Photovoltaics” Cycle XLI, in compliance with the Italian Ministry of the University and of the Research Decree (D.M.) n.226 of 14/12/2021, with the article 16 of “Regolamento didattico di Ateneo” and with “Regolamento di Ateneo in materia di Dottorato di Ricerca”, which rule and regulate any topic not considered here. 2. The PhD Program in Photovoltaics is promoted and organized by Dipartimento di Ingegneria dell’Informazione ed Elettrica e Matematica Applicata (DIEM). 3. The PhD Program is managed by the Collegio dei Docenti (Board of Professors) chaired by the Coordinatore (Program Director).  Article 2 LEARNING OUTCOMES AND EXPECTED OCCUPATIONAL OUTPUTS The PhD Program in Photovoltaics is addressed to qualified students who wish to acquire research and analytical skills at an international level about photovoltaic systems. The aim of the Program is to provide high-level training in the field of creation, management and dissemination of high-level scientific knowledge in photovoltaic systems, by applying to this context principles, approaches and methodologies ranging from basic sciences to electrical, electronic, computer and telecommunications engineering.  The objective is the creation of a high-level professional dedicated not only to research, but also to its management and to the development of innovation, in universities, research centers and companies. The PhD program therefore aims to train people able: • to analyze the state of the art and identify, propose, develop scientific and technological innovations; • to conduct methodological or experimental research; • to promote the acquisition and use of photovoltaic technologies and methods in the services and production sectors, including through the creation of new companies; • to operate in research projects of a local, national and international nature in the context of collaborations with organizations and companies. A PhD is awarded in recognition of the fact that the person to whom it is awarded has: • completed the PhD studies; • demonstrated the ability to independently run a scientific project on the topics using scientific methods appropriate to the subject; • helped to promote research at a level corresponding to the international standard for PhD programs within the discipline concerned; • satisfactorily defended a doctoral thesis in a public viva voce examination. Professionals holding doctoral degrees have distinct advantages. If interested in becoming a researcher in Universities and Research Centers, a PhD is a requirement. Large companies often start those with PhD’s at higher levels immediately upon hiring, and it is becoming common for top ranking positions to be reserved for doctoral degree holders only. Many industry research labs 

require PhDs to work in them at all; there is a distinct barrier for entry into high-ranking positions due to the immense level of technical knowledge and skill required to oversee large projects and teams. PhDs can also start their own companies based on their research. Possible employment opportunities can be summarized as follows: • small and medium enterprises with a high rate of innovation, including university spin-offs, in which there is a need for a professional able to produce innovative design solutions, participate in national and international calls, manage complex projects in collaboration with Italian and foreign partners, recognize the strategic value of intellectual property and know the tools to protect it; • research and development departments of large companies, in which there is a need for researchers able to access to scientific, technological and methodological knowledge already available but also to produce the necessary knowledge for the innovation of complex products and processes; • public and private research centers, including universities, in which methodological and technological innovation is developed, the products of which can then be transferred to the industrial world.  Article 3 ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS 1. To be admitted to the PhD Program, a Master degree or other equivalent qualification obtained abroad and recognized as suitable is necessary. 2. Access is through a competition for qualifications and exams, according to the procedures described in art.8 and 11 of the D.M. n.226 of 14/12/2021 and in the “Regolamento di Ateneo in materia di Dottorato di Ricerca”. 3. The Curriculum Vitae, the Master degree mark, any publications, documentation of any other training or research activities carried out, a proposal of a research project constitute evaluable qualifications. The curriculum must include the list of exams taken during the Bachelor degree and Master degree, with the marks obtained and the main topics studied. 4. During the exams, Candidates must demonstrate aptitude for research activity, knowledge of the basic elements concerning the PhD Program Curriculum for which the Candidate has applied and knowledge of English language. 5. The Board of Professors assigns a Tutor (Advisor) to each student admitted to the Course with the task of supervising student’s activities; the assignment is done by taking into account the research projects on course in the DIEM Department. 6. Students are required to continuously interact with the Advisor to share the choice of the most suitable activities for the research project and to discuss the progress of the research in view of the final draft of the doctoral thesis.  Article 4 STRUCTURE OF THE PROGRAM 1. The duration of the PhD Program is three years. 2. PhD Program Activities are: • Compulsory courses offered to doctorate students. 

• Independent learning, which is study of scientific and technical literature, mandatory attendance to seminars, support to teaching activities. Any other learning activity at a Doctorate level providing certified accomplishment of the workload will be accounted for. • Supervised research activities, including attending international conferences and submitting scientific papers.  • Compulsory stages in companies for students receiving a scholarship that is co-funded by a company. • Compulsory research secondment period abroad of, at least, six months. • Drafting of the Doctorate Thesis. 3. When completing an activity by obtaining a positive assessment on the final exam, students get awarded ECTS-credit points (in Italian, Credito Formativo Universitario - CFU). Every CFU represents the amount of accomplished workload: 1 CFU corresponds to 25 hours; the three years PhD Program corresponds to 180 CFUs. 4. At the end of the first and second year of the PhD Program, students must submit a report of their activities and present orally the results of their research activities to the Board of Professors. 5. The Board evaluates the independent learning and the research activities and assigns a mark. Possible grades are, in descending order: ottimo (excellent), buono (good), discreto (fair), sufficiente (pass), insufficiente (fail). Students who obtain an insufficiente (fail) mark are excluded from the PhD Program and lose their scholarships – if any. 6. Minimum requirements to be met by students at the end of each year are reported in Annex 1  Article 5 STUDY PLAN AND RESEARCH PROJECT 1. The study plan of the PhD program is reported in Annex 2. 2. At the beginning of their activities, PhD students must submit a study plan and a research project, both agreed with the Advisor, which must be approved by the Board of Professors to be effective. 3. Study plans may be periodically revised, in order to accommodate for possible modifications, or needs motivated by the development of their PhD career.  Article 6 PROGRAM ACTIVITIES 1. The list of the activities is reported in Annex 3 2. In the list, the learning outcomes are reported for each activity.  Article 7 ATTENDANCE OBLIGATIONS 1. The PhD study and research work is carried out, full time, during the three years of the PhD Program. 2. Students with scholarship can apply to be authorized for occasional and time-limited working activities. These activities must be aimed at acquiring skills related to the PhD Program and must in no case affect the PhD Program activities. In case the activities are authorized by the Board of Professors, the Board may request the student to present additional reports to check if the working activities do not affect PhD Program activities. 

3. Students without scholarship can apply to be authorized to carry out work activities by demonstrating that they are compatible with the PhD program activities. If the student is an employee, a declaration by the employer is also required stating awareness of the student’s status and commitment to grant work leaves to take part in the compulsory activities of the PhD Program. In case the activities are authorized by the Board of Professors, the Board may request the student to present additional reports to check if the working activities do not affect PhD Program activities.  Article 8 EXAMS 1. For the compulsory courses offered to PhD students, achievement of the learning outcome will be assessed by a Commission appointed by the Board of Professors which assigns a mark. Possible grades are, in descending order: ottimo (excellent), buono (good), discreto (fair), sufficiente (pass), insufficiente (fail). Students who get an insufficiente (fail) mark or reject the given mark can repeat the exam. 2. For other courses that certify CFUs, the marks obtained will be converted by the Board of Professors to the same scale. Grades expressed in 30ths are converted as: 29-30 e lode ottimo (excellent), 26-28 buono (good), 23-25 discreto (fair), 18-22 sufficiente (pass), 0-17 insufficiente (fail).  Article 9 FINAL EXAM 1. The main objective of the PhD career is the development of an original research contribution. The PhD thesis is expected to contribute to the advancement of the knowledge in the candidate's research field. 2. At the conclusion of the PhD studies, students must submit a report on their activities and a draft of the thesis, and present the results of their research activities to the Board of Professors. 2. The Board evaluates the whole of student’s activities and gives a final mark. Possible grades are, in descending order: ottimo (excellent), buono (good), discreto (fair), sufficiente (pass), insufficiente (fail). 3. Students who receive a positive assessment can submit their theses to two external reviewers, chosen by the Board, for refereeing. If the assessment provided by the reviewers is positive, or after the revisions possibly required by them, students can defend their thesis in a final exam, in front of a Committee. 4. After the thesis defense, the Committee assigns the PhD degree with a mark. Possible grades are: eccellente con lode (excellent cum laude), ottimo (excellent), buono (good), discreto (fair), sufficiente (pass). The mark is given depending on the presentation and defense of the Thesis, the quality of the obtained research results, the level of the publications, the marks obtained by the student during his/her career. The excellent cum laude grade may be assigned only unanimously in case of outstanding research results and must be adequately motivated by the Committee.  Article 10 DOUBLE-TITLE PROGRAM FOR STUDENTS OF THE ITALIAN PHD PROGRAM IN PHOTOVOLTAICS Refer to the “Rules for submitting the application for multiple degree” approved by the Board of Professors on 19/02/2024 and by the DIEM Board on 20/03/2024. https://corsi.unisa.it/uploads/rescue/499/10724/regolamento-titolo-multiplo-web.pdf 

 Article 11 DOUBLE-TITLE PROGRAM FOR STUDENTS OF FOREIGN UNIVERSITIES Refer to the “Rules for submitting the application for multiple degree” approved by the Board of Professors on 19/02/2024 and by the DIEM Board on 20/03/2024. https://corsi.unisa.it/uploads/rescue/499/10724/regolamento-titolo-multiplo-web.pdf  Article 12 AUTHORSHIP AND AI TOOLS Students, as authors of their PhD thesis and authors/co-authors of papers, are fully responsible for the content of their manuscript, even those parts produced by an AI tool, and are thus liable for any breach of publication ethics. Moreover, as stated in The European Code of Conduct for Research Integrity, they, as researchers, must report their results and methods, including the use of external services or AI and automated tools, in a way that is compatible with the accepted norms of the discipline and facilitates verification or replication, where applicable. In particular, they are fully responsible for the use of outputs generated by AI tools and for the correctness of the processes in which these tools are employed. Responsibility cannot be transferred to the AI: those who use it can be held liable in the event of improper use, such as violations of scientific and editorial integrity standards (plagiarism, failure to cite sources, etc.). In compliance with the indications of the Committee of Publication Ethics (COPE), authors who use AI tools in the writing of a manuscript, production of images or graphical elements of the paper, or in the collection and analysis of data, must be transparent in disclosing in the Materials and Methods (or similar section) of the paper how the AI tool was used and which tool was used.   

ANNEX 1 – MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS STUDENTS HAVE TO MET AT THE END OF EACH YEAR  FIRST YEAR By the end of the first year of the PhD Program, the student must have an in-depth knowledge of the relevant literature in the research field that is the subject of the PhD thesis and must be able to discuss about the main results in it. The research objective must be identified, together with a credible methodology to achieve it. At the end of the first year of the PhD Program, the student must prepare a report of the activities done in the first year and send it to the Coordinator, who will share it with the whole Board of Professors. Moreover, the student gives an oral presentation to the Board of Professors which must include the following issues: • Scientific background, by evidencing the importance of the field through an in-depth referencing to recent literature • Description of the proposed research objective, by evidencing the research gap with respect to the current literature • Outline of the methodologies the student proposes to achieve the objectives • Preliminary results The student must have passed all the exams included in his/her plan of studies. The student also describes further activities done in the first year, e.g., collaborations with groups other than the one of the advisor, conference attendance, involvement in research projects, support to teaching activities. The report and the slides, as well as any other material the student uses to support the aforementioned presentation, must be delivered to the Coordinator, who will share it with the Board of Professors. The Board of Professors, on the basis of the quality of the presentation, of the marks achieved at the exams following the compulsory courses and on the opinion of the Advisor about the overall activities, decides about the admission of the student to the second year and assigns a final mark to the Independent Learning and the Supervised Research activities. The motivation of the marks is provided to the student as a feedback.    SECOND YEAR By the end of the second year of the PhD Program, the student must have achieved some results confirming that the methodology presented at the end of the first year has been successful. In case the methodology has not allowed to achieve some expected preliminary results, a new research plan must be presented and the way of achieving the results in a reduced time must be illustrated.  At the end of the second year of the PhD Program, the student must prepare a report of the activities done in the second year and send it to the Coordinator, who will share it with the whole Board of Professors. Moreover, the student gives an oral presentation to the Board of Professors which must include the following issues: • Update of the scientific background and of the proposed research objective • Consolidated results, which are the subject of a paper accepted for presentation in an international peer reviewed conference The student also describes further activities done in the second year, e.g., collaborations with groups other than the one of the advisor, conference attendance, involvement in research projects, support to teaching activities. The report and the slides, as well as any other material the student uses to support the aforementioned presentation, must be delivered to the Coordinator, who will share it with the Board of Professors. 

Assessment of the activities is carried out as at the end of the first year.    THIRD YEAR By the end of the third year of the PhD Program, the student must have achieved a good command of the research area, have achieved the majority of the research objectives and results going beyond the state of the art. Some results should have been reviewed by peers. The student must demonstrate that at least one paper related to the topic treated in the PhD thesis, with the student as the main contributing author, has been accepted for publication in a journal appearing in SCOPUS or WOS data bases. Moreover, the student must demonstrate the participation as a paper presenting author in an international peer-reviewed conference.  At the end of the third year of the PhD Program, the student must prepare a report of the activities done in the third year and send it to the Coordinator, who will share it with the whole Board of Professors. Moreover, the student must give an oral presentation to the Board of Professors which gives the overview of the PhD thesis work. The student also describes further activities done in the third year, e.g., collaborations with groups other than the one of the advisor, conference attendance, involvement in research projects, support to teaching activities. Slides and any other material the student uses to support the aforementioned presentation must be delivered to the Coordinator, who will share it with the Board of Professors. The student submits an advanced version of the PhD thesis draft to the Board of Professors.  Assessment of the activities is carried out as at the end of the first year.    

ANNEX 2 – STUDY PLAN By completing an activity, students get awarded ECTS-credit points (in Italian, Credito Formativo Universitario - CFU). Every CFU represents the amount of accomplished workload: 1 CFU = 25 hours. The courses offered to PhD students, each one consisting of 3 CFU, include 18 hours of classes and 57 hours that are reserved to independent studies, homework, assigned projects.  DIDACTIC ACTIVITIES      Compulsory activities SSD CFU/Hours Year Notes Scientific Writing and Publishing  3 CFU/18 hours 1  Optimization Techniques for Engineers MATH-06/A 3 CFU/18 hours 1  Innovation Management  3 CFU/18 hours 1  Innovative research methodologies in industrial settings  3 CFU/18 hours 1  
Photovoltaic Systems IIET-01/A 3 CFU/18 hours 2  Funding and Management of Research Projects  3 CFU/18 hours 2  Exploitation of Research Results  3 CFU/18 hours 2  Other didactic activities SSD CFU/Hours Year Notes English language (CEFR C1)  6 CFU 1-2 For non-Italian students, coming from Countries having English among the official languages or producing a certificate of CEFR C1, it is replaced by Italian Language (CEFR B1) Elective activities: courses of the PhD program or included in Master’s programs or given by other PhD programs with a clear indication of the corresponding CFUs 
 0<=X<=15 CFU 1-2  
Independent Learning (includes seminars and support to the teaching activities)  33-X CFU 1-2  
TOT. DIDACTIC ACTIVITIES  60 CFU        RESEARCH ACTIVITIES   120 CFU   Research secondment period abroad (min. 6 months).  15<=Y<=90 CFU 2-3  Supervised research activity (including conference participation, papers submission, and periods to spend in industries or research centers) 
 110-Y CFU 1-2-3  
Thesis drafting and discussing (in English)  10 CFU 3  TOTAL RESEARCH  120 CFU   TOT. DIDACTICS AND RESEARCH  180 CFU   

ANNEX 3 – PhD PROGRAM ACTIVITIES  Drafting of the Doctorate Thesis Learning outcomes: To be able to correctly and effectively structure and present the research methodology carried on and the obtained results. To demonstrate knowledge of the scientific state of the art. To show awareness of the relevance of theories and methods in relation to the research topic.  English language Learning outcomes: To be able to understand a wide range of demanding, longer clauses, and recognize implicit meaning. To be able to express ideas fluently and spontaneously without much obvious searching for expressions. To be able to use language flexibly and effectively for social, academic and professional purposes. To be able to produce clear, well-structured, detailed text on complex subjects, showing controlled use of organizational patterns, connectors and cohesive devices. To reach the CEFR C1 level (Effective Operational Proficiency, i.e. experienced enough to conduct PhD-related activities in English).  Italian language Learning outcomes: To be able to understand the main points of clear standard input on familiar matters regularly encountered in work, school, leisure, etc. To be able to deal with most situations likely to arise while living in Italy. To be able to produce simple connected text on topics that are familiar or of personal interest. To be able to describe experiences and events. To reach the CEFR B1 level (Intermediate) at least.  Independent learning Learning outcomes: To have a thorough knowledge of the literature and a comprehensive understanding of scientific methods and techniques applicable to his/her own research.  Supervised research activities Learning outcomes: To be able to demonstrate originality in the application of knowledge, together with a practical understanding of how research are used to create and interpret knowledge in his/her field. To have developed the ability to critically evaluate current research and research techniques and methodologies. To have self-direction and originality in tackling and solving problems. To be able to act autonomously in the planning and implementation of research. To have gained oral presentation and scientific writing skills. To have effectively disseminate the results of the research activity.  Research secondment period abroad Learning outcomes: To improve professional communication, presentation and interpersonal skills, networking skills in another research environment and social context. To develop resilience through coping with adversity or challenging circumstances. To increase awareness of and sensitivity to other cultural traditions and norms.  Scientific writing and publishing Learning outcomes: The course aims at show how a technical document must be designed, organized, prepared, written and presented. In case of a scientific paper, the student must acquire the ability of deciding to which journal or conference to submit it, especially to spread it in open access. As for journals, the student must be able to analyze the scope of a journal, its impact, its 

diffusion within the scientific community. As for the conferences, the student must be able to evaluate the potential audience, to check the availability of special sessions, to be available to meet experts in the field for discussing the research results. The student must understand the meaning of the main citation indices and the use of the main scientific databases, i.e. WOS and SCOPUS. The student must be able to conduct bibliographic research, and to presenting in the most effective way the results. The student must be able to understand the difference between a regular paper and a review paper. The student must also know the principles of ethics and the procedures to operate as a reviewer and to be able to prepare a technical presentation and a scientific poster.  Optimization Techniques for Engineers Learning outcomes: The course aims to provide knowledge of the mathematical concepts and algorithmic tools for modeling and solving an important class of optimization problems: convex problems. Indeed, a wide variety of problems in various application areas can be formulated mathematically in terms of optimizing an objective function while respecting a set of constraints. Students will also acquire skills in using available software tools for solving these types of problems.  Innovation Management Learning outcomes: The course aims to provide students with the skills needed to lead and manage innovation processes within complex organizations. The course is designed to develop both technical and leadership skills, promoting an integrated approach to innovation management and the preparation of business cases that, in addition to technological and economic aspects, also consider the social, environmental, and territorial impact and sustainability of the proposed innovations.  Innovative research methodologies in industrial settings Learning outcomes: The course aims to provide an in-depth understanding of advanced research methodologies currently applied in state-of-the-art industrial settings. Students will develop the skills to propose and implement innovative research projects, using techniques and tools to solve complex industrial problems. The course promotes collaboration between academia and industry to facilitate innovation.  Photovoltaic systems Learning outcomes: The course aims to provide a resume of the fundamental approaches to the analysis and design of photovoltaic systems, with a knowledge about modeling and simulation of panels, of power electronic circuits, of batteries. Specific aspects characterizing isolated and grid connected photovoltaic systems will be known.  Funding and Management of Research Projects Learning outcomes: The course aims to provide knowledge and skills regarding funding opportunities for research projects, with a particular focus on European funding programs; the evaluation criteria for research proposals and the preparation of a project proposal that effectively meets these criteria; and the design and submission of a research proposal. The course also introduces the methodologies and tools for planning and managing research project activities, as well as for documenting and reporting the activities carried out.  Exploitation of Research Results Learning outcomes: The course aims to understand and apply fundamental concepts in intellectual property and technology transfer. Specifically, the regulatory framework for intellectual property 

will be presented, with a focus on the legal, technical, and procedural aspects of the patenting process in both Italy and Europe. The process of creating an innovative company will also be presented, including through case studies, with a focus on start-ups and university spin-offs, describing national initiatives and opportunities to support innovative entrepreneurship.  