---
source: https://corsi.unisa.it/uploads/rescue/499/9038/regolamento-titolo-multiplo-web.pdf
found_in: https://corsi.unisa.it/photovoltaics/didattica/regolamenti
type: pdf
---

 Do$orato di Interesse Nazionale Photovoltaics  Rules for submi-ng the applica5on for mul5ple degree Approved by the Board of Professors on 19/02/2024 and by the DIEM Board on 20/03/2024   DOUBLE/MULTIPLE-TITLE PROGRAM FOR STUDENTS OF THE PHD PROGRAM “PHOTOVOLTAICS”. Students in the ﬁrst 18 months of their PhD programs, in agreement with their Advisors, may apply for a double/mulDple-Dtle program in cooperaDon with a Foreign University with a PhD Program related to the topics included in the Italian PhD Course Photovoltaics. In case there is not already a frame agreement on double/mulDple-Dtle programs between the University of Salerno, the Italian University where the student works and the Foreign University, the double/mulDple-Dtle program will be acDvated only if an agreement (either for the speciﬁc student, or a frame agreement) can be reached and subscribed by all these UniversiDes.  Agreements must ﬁt with the following rules. 1. The student must spend at least 1 year, not necessarily in a conDnuous period, at the Foreign University. 2. The support (e.g. accommodaDon, logisDcs) the Foreign University oﬀers to the student must be clearly described in the agreement. 3. In addiDon to the study plan in Annex 1, there must be at least 15 CFUs of learning acDviDes whose compleDons is cerDﬁed by the Foreign University.  4. Students in the double/mulDple-Dtle program will also be enrolled at the Foreign University and will receive both PhD Dtles, either aTer a joint ﬁnal exam, or aTer separate ﬁnal exams (as speciﬁed by the agreement). The student submits the agreement proposal to the Board of Professors, by also including: 1. a detailed moDvaDon for having the mobility period in the Foreign University, e.g. based on the peculiarity of the competences oﬀered by the Foreign University, or on the availability of laboratories having a key equipment that will give a signiﬁcant contribuDon to the research project of the student; 2. the CV of the Advisor(s) of the student in the Foreign University.      The student defends the proposal during an interview with the Quality Assurance Group of the PhD Program, which is increased with the parDcipaDon of the Director of the Department of InformaDon Engineering and Electrical Engineering and Applied MathemaDcs (DIEM) of the University of Salerno and of the Director of the Department of the Italian University where the student works. The Quality Assurance Group, on the basis of the text of the proposed agreement, of the two documents listed above, of the interview result, and possibly of further informaDon that may be requested to the student or to the Foreign University, submits its opinion to the Board of Professors. The Quality Assurance Group will consider, among other things, the overall consistency of the research project presented in the proposal, the commitment of the Foreign University (e.g., on the basis of the funding or faciliDes provided), and the scienDﬁc qualiﬁcaDons of the Foreign University Advisors. The Board of Professors, aTer examining the proposal and by taking into account the opinion of the Quality Assurance Group, may approve or reject the student proposal.   

 Do$orato di Interesse Nazionale Photovoltaics  DOUBLE/MULTIPLE-TITLE PROGRAM FOR STUDENTS OF FOREIGN UNIVERSITIES. Students from a Foreign University enrolled in a PhD Program related to the topics included in the Italian PhD Course Photovoltaics, and which have not yet completed half of the program duraDon, may apply for a double/mulDple-Dtle program in cooperaDon with the University of Salerno and of the other Italian University where the student is aimed to work. In case there is not already a frame agreement on double/mulDple-Dtle programs between the University of Salerno, the Italian University where the student is aimed to work and the Foreign University, the double/mulDple-Dtle program will be acDvated only if an agreement (either for the speciﬁc student, or a frame agreement) can be reached and subscribed by all these UniversiDes.  Agreement must ﬁt with the following rules. 1. The student must spend at least 1 year, not necessarily in a conDnuous period, at the Italian University contribuDng to the PhD Program Photovoltaics. 2. The student must acquire at least the CFUs of the mandatory learning acDviDes in the plan of the PhD program Photovoltaics.  3. Students in the double/mulDple-Dtle program will also be enrolled at the University of Salerno and at the Italian University where he/she is aimed to work, and will receive all the PhD Dtles, either aTer a joint ﬁnal exam, or aTer separate ﬁnal exams (as speciﬁed by the agreement).  The student submits the agreement proposal to the Board of Professors, by also including: 1. a detailed moDvaDon for having the mobility period in the Italian University, e.g. based on the peculiarity of the competences oﬀered by the Italian University, or on the availability of laboratories having a key equipment that will give a signiﬁcant contribuDon to the research project of the student; 2. indicaDon of the professor(s) aﬃliated to the PhD Program Photovoltaics that will serve as Advisor(s) to the student, and the CV of the Advisor(s) of the student in the Foreign University.      The student defends the proposal during an interview with the Quality Assurance Group of the PhD Program which is increased with the parDcipaDon of the Director of the Department of InformaDon Engineering and Electrical Engineering and Applied MathemaDcs (DIEM) of the University of Salerno and of the Director of the Department of the Italian University where the student is aimed to work. The Quality Assurance Group, on the basis of the qualiﬁcaDon of the applying student, of the text of the proposed agreement, of the two documents listed above, of the interview result, and possibly of further informaDon that may be requested to the student or to the Foreign University, submits its opinion to the Board of Professors. The Quality Assurance Group will consider, among other things, the qualiﬁcaDons of the applying student, the selecDon criteria in place at the Foreign University for the admission to a PhD program, the overall consistency of the research project presented in the proposal, and the scienDﬁc qualiﬁcaDons of the Foreign University Advisors. The Board of Professors, aTer examining the proposal and by taking into account the opinion of the Quality Assurance Group, may approve or reject the student proposal.   