---
source: https://corsi.unisa.it/uploads/rescue/499/11131/scadenzario-per-web.pdf
found_in: https://corsi.unisa.it/photovoltaics/didattica/esame-finale
type: pdf
---

 Do$orato di Interesse Nazionale Photovoltaics  Deadlines for admission to the final exam and for the final thesis defense for the students of the Cycle 38   November 7, 2025: The student submits the final version of the thesis and the report on the activities undertaken during the doctoral program and any publications to the Coordinator.  November 10-14, 2025: The Committees appointed by the Board of the Professors, consisting of three members from the Board of the Professors, examine the candidate (a 30-minute presentation, followed by questions and answers) and recommend to the Board of the Professors that the thesis and the report on the activities undertaken during the doctoral program and any publications be sent to the two reviewers.  November 17, 2025: The Board of the Professors decides whether to send the thesis and the report on the activities undertaken during the doctoral program and any publications to the two reviewers, and appoints them. Reviewers will also receive an email from the Coordinator with a document to complete. They can express their assessment of the thesis, including a grade (excellent, good, fair, pass, fail) and a recommendation (Admit, Minor Revisions, Delay). The reviewers' assessment will be considered positive if both reviewers express a recommendation of Admit or Minor Revisions.  December 20, 2025: The Board of the Professors Committees and the students receive the reviewers' evaluation forms. The Committees will inform the Board of the Professors if both reviewers give a positive assessment.  January 8, 2026: Having received a positive assessment from the reviewers, the Board of the Professors will admit the student to the final defense and appoint the Committee for the final exam, which will be held at the University of Salerno on a date to be jointly determined by the Members of the Defense Committee and by the Coordinator.   For students who do not meet the above deadline, the deadlines will be the following ones.  January 9, 2026: The student submits the final version of the thesis and the report on the activities undertaken during the doctoral program and any publications to the Coordinator.  January 12-16, 2026: The Committees appointed by the Board of the Professors, consisting of three members from the Board of the Professors, examine the candidate (a 30-minute presentation, followed by questions and answers) and recommend to the Board of the Professors that the thesis and the report on the activities undertaken during the doctoral program and any publications be sent to the two reviewers.  January 19, 2026: The Board of the Professors decides whether to send the thesis and the report on the activities undertaken during the doctoral program and any publications to the two reviewers, and appoints them. Reviewers will also receive an email from the Coordinator with a document to complete. They can express their assessment of the thesis, including a grade (excellent, good, fair, 

 Do$orato di Interesse Nazionale Photovoltaics  pass, fail) and a recommendation (Admit, Minor Revisions, Delay). The reviewers' assessment will be considered positive if both reviewers express a recommendation of Admit or Minor Revisions.  February 25, 2026: The Board of the Professors Committees and the students receive the reviewers' evaluation forms. The Committees will inform the Board of the Professors if both reviewers give a positive assessment.  March 1, 2026: Having received a positive assessment from the reviewers, the Board of the Professors will admit the student to the final defense and appoint the Committee for the final exam, which will be held at the University of Salerno on a date to be jointly determined by the Members of the Defense Committee and by the Coordinator.  Notes: 1) Deadlines for the students are strict. No delay will be accepted. This will affect the process. 2) Committees appointed by the Board of the Professors allow to speed up the process and proceed in parallel. The final decisions will always be taken by the Board of Professors. 3) The Committees appointed by the Board of the Professors are different from the Defense Committee 4) The final discussion of the thesis will take place in presence only at the University of Salerno in front of the Defense Committee. You will be able to use your research funds for your mission to Salerno. The research funds of the Cycle 38 will also be used to cover the travel expenses of the members of the Defense Committee 5) UNISA will not perform any anti-plagiarism test on your thesis. It will be published on this platform http://elea.unisa.it/handle/10556/45 and UNISA will ask you if to publish it there immediately or after 12 months. The check for the compatibility of this publication with the requirements of the publisher of your articles (IEEE, Elsevier,…) is at your charge. 6) UNISA does not have a template for the thesis. You can use the one available on the PhD Course web page or a similar one (please remember that the final PhD title is released by UNISA and by the University where you have worked). 7) Students asking for an extension after the end of the third year of their cycle (31 October 2025 for the students of the Cycle 38) will be able to use their research fund during the extension period. 8) For the students that will ask for an extension, further deadlines will be fixed. 9) The procedure, the requisites for the evaluators and for the members of the Defense Committee must be compliant with the Italian law D.M. 226/2021, articles 8.11 and 8.12     