---
source: https://corsi.unisa.it/uploads/rescue/__regolamenti-cds/2024/88605.pdf
found_in: https://corsi.unisa.it/ingegneria-dell-informazione/didattica/regolamenti
type: pdf
---

University of Salerno PhD PROGRAM IN INFORMATION ENGINEERING RULES AND REGULATIONS Cycle 40  Article 1 - SCOPE 1. This document presents the rules and regulations for the Dottorato di Ricerca in Ingegneria dell’Informazione”, (PhD Program in Information Engineering), in compliance with article 16 of “Regolamento didattico di Ateneo” and with “Regolamento di Ateneo in materia di Dottorato di Ricerca”, which rule and regulate any topic not considered here. 2. The PhD Program in Information Engineering is promoted and organized by Dipartimento di Ingegneria dell’Informazione ed Elettrica e Matematica Applicata (DIEM). 3. The PhD Program is managed by the Collegio dei Docenti (Board of Professors) chaired by the Coordinatore (Program Director).  Article 2 - LEARNING OUTCOMES AND EXPECTED OCCUPATIONAL OUTPUTS The goal of the PhD program is the acquisition of knowledge and skills characterizing a figure that can autonomously perform innovative research activities, but also possesses the transversal skills required for an effective collocation in a workplace at the frontiers of research on topics related to Information Engineering, such as a University, a Research Institution or the R&D division of a company.  Examples of research activities falling within the scope of the program include: analysis, design and optimization of computer systems, hardware and software, of data analysis and knowledge management systems, possibly including artificial intelligence techniques, of telecommunication networks and systems, of control and automation systems, and also of systems dedicated to relevant applications, such as energy management or digital medicine, where the technologies and methodologies of Information Engineering play a significant role.  The PhD program is structured into two curricula: the first (Computer and Information Systems Engineering) is focused in general on methodological and technological issues related to Information Engineering; the second (Information Technologies for Digital Medicine) is more specifically addressing the applications of Information Engineering to medical systems and to the analysis and processing of biomedical data.   In more detail, the knowledge and skills expected as outcomes of the PhD program are: • Knowledge of the state of the art on the topic of the proposed research activity • Ability to critically analyze the state of the art in order to propose scientific innovations, either of technological or of methodological nature • Ability to conduct a research activity, either of theoretical/methodological or of experimental nature • Ability to present the obtained research results, submitting them to an evaluation by the relevant scientific community • Ability to promote the transfer of the developed innovations into the world of production and services, possibly through the development of innovative enterprises • Ability to participate to national and international research projects, possibly involving the collaboration with companies and other research institutions  

The achievement of the expected learning outcomes shall be demonstrated through the following activities: • Completion of the learning activities in the PhD program with a positive grade • Conducting autonomously a research project using the scientific methodologies most appropriate for the selected field • Promoting and disseminating the research results at a level corresponding to internationally recognized scientific standards • Defense of a Doctorate Thesis before a qualified Committee of experts in the research field, obtaining a positive grade   The PhD program in Information Engineering prepares the student to conduct research activities, on topics within the scope of the program, at national and international Universities and Research Institutions (both public and private), for which the possess of the PhD degree is often considered a requisite. Furthermore, several companies, in their recruitment policies, require or take into account the possess of a PhD degree on the topics covered by this program, for positions in their R&D division. Last but not least, there is also the possibility of translating an innovative idea into a business opportunity, possibly taking advantage of funding incentives for the creation of Start-Ups and University Spin-Offs.  Possible employment opportunities can be summarized as follows: • Small and medium innovative enterprises in the field of Information Engineering, including Start-Ups and University Spin-Offs, and more generally companies interested in a professional figure able to develop innovative solutions, to participate to research projects funded by international calls, to manage complex projects involving the collaboration between several institutions, and to recognize and to exploit the value of intellectual property • Large companies operating in the field of Information Engineering, or for which Information Engineering constitutes an important element of the value chain, and requiring researchers able to draw scientific, methodological and technical knowledge from the state of the art to realize innovations in the products or in the production processes • Public or private research institutions, including Universities, having the mission of advancing the frontier of scientific knowledge, of technology and of the methodological approaches in the field of Information Engineering, and of catalyzing the transfer of the innovation towards the productive world.   Article 3 - ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS 1. To be admitted to the PhD Program, a Master degree or other equivalent qualification obtained abroad and recognized as suitable is necessary. 2. Access is through a competition for qualifications and exams, according to the procedures described in the “Regolamento di Ateneo in materia di Dottorato di Ricerca”. 3. The Curriculum Vitae, the Master degree mark, any letters of presentation by scholars from outside the University of origin, any publications, documentation of any other training or research activities carried out, constitute evaluable qualifications. The curriculum must include the list of exams taken during the Bachelor degree and Master degree, with the marks obtained and the main topics studied. 4. During the exams, Candidates must demonstrate: knowledge of the main topics concerning Computer Engineering, Electronic Engineering, Automation Engineering and Telecommunications Engineering; analytical skills; knowledge of English at least at CEFR B2 level. Applicants may be asked to answer written questions. 

5. Each student admitted to the Course, taking into account the research projects underway at the Department and the student's skills, will be assigned a Tutor (Advisor), chosen from among the professors of the University, with the task of supervising student’s activities. 6. Students are required to continuously interact with the Advisor to share the choice of the most suitable activities for the research project and to discuss the progress of the research in view of the final draft of the doctoral thesis.   Article 4 - STRUCTURE OF THE PROGRAM 1. The duration of the PhD Program is three years. 2. PhD Program Activities are: • Mandatory courses offered to doctorate students. • Elective learning activities: Master degree courses taught at University of Salerno; other learning activities at a Master or Doctorate level providing certified accomplishment of the workload. • Independent learning (study of scientific and technical literature; mandatory attendance to seminars; support to teaching activities). • Supervised research activities, including attending international conferences and submitting scientific papers. Activities may include stages in Italian companies or Institutions. • Research secondment period abroad. • Drafting of the Doctorate Thesis. 3. When completing an activity by obtaining a positive assessment on the final exam, students get awarded ECTS-credit points (in Italian, Credito Formativo Universitario - CFU). Every CFU represents the amount of accomplished workload: 1 CFU corresponds to 25 hours; 1 year corresponds to 60 CFUs or 1500 hours; the three years PhD Program corresponds to 180 CFUs. 4. At the end of the first and second year of the PhD Program, students must submit a report of their activities, and present the results of their research activities to the Board of Professors. 5. The Board evaluates the independent learning and the research activities and assigns a mark. Possible grades are, in descending order: ottimo (excellent), buono (good), discreto (fair), sufficiente (pass), insufficiente (fail). Students who obtain an insufficiente (fail) mark are excluded from the PhD Program and lose their scholarships – if any.   Article 5 - STUDY PLAN AND RESEARCH PROJECT 1. The structure of the study plan of the PhD program is reported in Annex 1. 2. At the beginning of their activities, PhD students must submit a study plan and a research project, both agreed with their Advisor, which must be approved by the Board of Professors to be effective. 3. Study plans may be periodically revised, in order to accommodate for possible modifications, or needs motivated by the development of their PhD career.  Article 6 - PROGRAM ACTIVITIES 1. The list of the activities is reported in Annex 2 2. In the list, the learning outcomes are reported for each activity.  Article 7 - ATTENDANCE OBLIGATIONS 1. The PhD study and research work is carried out, full time, during the three years of the PhD Program. 2. Students with a scholarship can apply to be authorized for occasional and time-limited working activities. These activities must be aimed at acquiring skills related to the PhD Program and must in no case affect the PhD Program activities. In case the activities are authorized by the Board of 

Professors, the Board may request the student to present additional reports to check if the working activities are actually not affecting PhD Program activities. 3. Students without a scholarship can apply to be authorized to carry out work activities by demonstrating that they are compatible with the PhD program activities. In the event that the student is an employee of a company or institution, a declaration by the employer is also required stating awareness of the student’s status and commitment to grant work leaves to take part in the compulsory activities of the PhD Program. In case the activities are authorized by the Board of Professors, the Board may request the student to present additional reports to check if the working activities are actually not affecting PhD Program activities.  Article 8 - EXAMS 1. For the compulsory courses offered to PhD students, achievement of the learning outcome will be assessed by a Commission appointed by the Board of Professors which assigns a mark. Possible grades are, in descending order: ottimo (excellent), buono (good), discreto (fair), sufficiente (pass), insufficiente (fail). Students who get an insufficiente (fail) mark or reject the given mark can repeat the exam only once after at least 30 days. 2. For other courses that certify CFUs, the marks obtained will be converted by the Board of Professors to the same scale. Grades expressed in 30ths are converted as follows:  • 29-30 e lode  converted to ottimo (excellent),  • 26-28   converted to buono (good),  • 23-25   converted to discreto (fair),  • 18-22   converted to sufficiente (pass),  • 0-17   converted to insufficiente (fail).  Article 9 - FINAL EXAM 1. The main objective of the PhD career is the development of an original research contribution. The PhD thesis is expected to contribute to the advancement of the knowledge in the candidate's research field. 2. At the conclusion of the PhD studies, students must submit a report on their activities and a draft of the thesis, and present the results of their research activities to the Board of Professors. 2. The Board evaluates the whole of student’s activities and gives a final mark. Possible grades are, in descending order: ottimo (excellent), buono (good), discreto (fair), sufficiente (pass), insufficiente (fail). 3. Students who receive a positive assessment (i.e. other than insufficiente/fail) can submit their theses to two external reviewers, chosen by the Board, for refereeing. If the assessment provided by the reviewers is positive (or after the revisions possibly required by them), students can defend their thesis in a final exam, before a Committee. 4. After the thesis defense, the Committee assigns the PhD degree with a mark. Possible grades are: eccellente con lode (excellent cum laude), ottimo (excellent), buono (good), discreto (fair), sufficiente (pass). The mark is given depending on the presentation and defense of the Thesis, the quality of the obtained research results, the level of the publications, the marks obtained by the student during his/her career. The excellent cum laude grade may be assigned only unanimously in case of outstanding research results and has to be adequately motivated by the Committee.  Article 10 - DOUBLE-TITLE PROGRAM FOR STUDENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF SALERNO. Students in the first 18 months of their PhD programs, in agreement with their Advisors, may apply for a double-title program in cooperation with a Foreign University with a PhD Program related to Information Engineering. In case there is not already a frame agreement on double-title programs between the University of Salerno and the Foreign University, the double-title program will be activated only if an agreement 

(either for the specific student, or a frame agreement) can be reached and subscribed by both the Universities. Agreements must fit with the following rules. 1. The student must spend at least 1 year, not necessarily in a continuous period, at the Foreign University. 2. The support (e.g. accommodation, logistics) the Foreign University offers to the student must be clearly described in the agreement. 3. In addition to the study plan in Annex 1: there must be at least 15 CFUs of learning activities whose completions is certified by the Foreign University. 4. Students in the double-title program will also be enrolled at the Foreign University and will receive both PhD titles, either after a joint final exam, or after separate final exams (as specified by the agreement). The student submits the agreement proposal to the Board of Professors, by also including: 1. a detailed motivation for having the mobility period in the Foreign University, e.g. based on the peculiarity of the competences offered by the Foreign University, or on the availability of laboratories having a key equipment for the student activity during the stay; 2. the CV of the Advisor(s) of the student in the Foreign University. The student defends the proposal during an interview with the Quality Assurance Group of the PhD Program, which is increased with the participation of the Director of the Department of Information Engineering and Electrical Engineering and Applied Mathematics (DIEM) of the University of Salerno. The Quality Assurance Group, on the basis of the text of the proposed agreement, of the two documents listed above, of the interview result, and possibly of further information that may be requested to the student or to the Foreign University, submits its opinion to the Board of Professors. The Quality Assurance Group will consider, among other things, the overall consistency of the research project presented in the proposal, the commitment of the Foreign University (e.g., on the basis of the funding or facilities provided), and the scientific qualifications of the Foreign University Advisors. The Board of Professors, after examining the proposal and by taking into account the opinion of the Quality Assurance Group, may approve or reject the student proposal.  Article 11 - DOUBLE-TITLE PROGRAM FOR STUDENTS OF FOREIGN UNIVERSITIES. Students from a Foreign University enrolled in a PhD Program related to Information Engineering, and which have not yet completed half of the program duration, may apply for a double-title program in cooperation with the University of Salerno. In case there is not already a frame agreement on double-title programs between the University of Salerno and the Foreign University, the double-title program will be activated only if an agreement (either for the specific student, or a frame agreement) can be reached and subscribed by both the Universities. Agreement must fit with the following rules. 1. The student must spend at least 1 year, not necessarily in a continuous period, at the University of Salerno. 2. The student must acquire at least the CFUs of the mandatory learning activities in the plan of the PhD program of the University of Salerno. 3. Students in the double-title program will also be enrolled at the University of Salerno and will receive both PhD titles, either after a joint final exam, or after separate final exams (as specified by the agreement). The student submits the agreement proposal to the Board of Professors, by also including: 1. a detailed motivation for having the mobility period in the Foreign University, e.g. based on the peculiarity of the competences offered by the Foreign University, or on the availability of laboratories having a key equipment for the student activity during the stay; 

2. indication of the University of Salerno professor(s) that will serve as Advisor(s) to the student, and the CV of the Advisor(s) of the student in the Foreign University. The student defends the proposal during an interview with the Quality Assurance Group of the PhD Program which is increased with the participation of the Director of the Department of Information Engineering and Electrical Engineering and Applied Mathematics (DIEM) of the University of Salerno. The Quality Assurance Group, on the basis of the qualification of the applying student, of the text of the proposed agreement, of the two documents listed above, of the interview result, and possibly of further information that may be requested to the student or to the Foreign University, submits its opinion to the Board of Professors. The Quality Assurance Group will consider, among other things, the qualifications of the applying student, the selection criteria in place at the Foreign University for the admission to a PhD program, the overall consistency of the research project presented in the proposal, and the scientific qualifications of the Foreign University Advisors. The Board of Professors, after examining the proposal and by taking into account the opinion of the Quality Assurance Group, may approve or reject the student proposal.   

Annex 1: Study plan By completing an activity, students get awarded ECTS-credit points (in Italian, Credito Formativo Universitario - CFU). Every CFU represents the amount of accomplished workload: 1 CFU = 25 hours; 1 year = 60 CFUs = 1500 hours. For the courses offered to PhD students there will be 6 hours of classes for each CFU, the other 19 hours will be reserved to independent studies, homework, assigned projects  The PhD program is divided into two curricula: (a) - Computer and Information Systems Engineering (b) - Information Technologies for Digital Medicine   Mandatory learning activities Activity description SSD CFU/Lecture hours Year Notes Scientific Writing and Publishing  3 CFU / 18 hours 1  Advanced Machine Learning ING-INF/05 3 CFU / 18 hours 1 See (1) below Optimization Techniques for Engineers MAT/09 3 CFU / 18 hours 1  Innovation Management  3 CFU / 18 hours 1  Innovative research methodologies in industrial settings  3 CFU / 18 hours 1  Computational Paradigms for Problem Solving ING-INF/05 3 CFU / 18 hours 1 Curriculum: Computer and Information Systems Engineering  Advanced AI for Digital Medicine ING-INF/05 3 CFU / 18 hours 1 Curriculum: Information Technologies for Digital Medicine  Funding and Management of Research Projects  3 CFU / 18 hours 2  Exploitation of Research Results  3 CFU / 18 hours 2  Other learning activities Activity description SSD CFU Year Notes English Language (CEFR C1 level)  6 CFU 1-2 See (2) below Elective activities: Master degree courses of the University of Salerno; other learning activities at a Master or Doctorate level providing a certified number of CFU 
Depends on the selected activities 0<=X<=12 CFU 1-2 See (1) below 
Independent Learning (study of scientific and technical literature; includes mandatory seminars attendance and support to teaching activities) 
Depends on the SSD of the Advisor(s) 30-X CFU 1-2  
Total of learning activities 60 CFU  See (3) below Research activities Activity description  CFU Year Notes Research secondment period abroad (min. 6 months, max. 18 total months); some scholarships entail a minimum period abroad of 6 months. 
 30<=Y<=90 CFU 2-3  
Supervised research activities (includes attending international conferences, at least once as presenting author, and the mandatory submission of at least one paper related to the PhD thesis, accepted for an international conference or journal listed in 
 110-Y CFU 1-2-3  

the Scopus or Wos databases). May include stages in Italian or foreign companies or institutions. Total of research activities 110 CFU   Drafting of the Doctorate Thesis (in English)  10 CFU 3  Total of activities 180 CFU    Note (1): For students without a background in Machine Learning this course will be replaced by a Machine Learning course (9 CFU) of the Master Degree in Computer Engineering and the Elective Learning Activities will be limited to 6 CFUs. For students in the curriculum Information Technologies for Digital Medicine, it is advised to choose the Master course on Embedded Systems for E-Health if the student does not have a sufficient background on embedded systems. Note (2): For foreign students from Countries where English is an official language the activity will be Italian language (level B1 CEFR at least). Note (3): All learning activities, including related assessments, have to be completed by the end of the second year.   

Annex 2: PhD program activities  Advanced AI for Digital Medicine Learning outcomes: To acquire knowledge and skills on the use of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning methodologies for the analysis and processing of large quantities of medical data (e.g. genomic data, medical images, collected data from wearable sensors) to support diagnosis, therapeutic personalization and patient assistance, highlighting the specificities of the methodologies to be adopted in the domain of digital medicine (among these, the need for "explainability" of the response provided by the system, and the ability to operate on data partially obfuscated for privacy reasons).   Advanced machine learning Learning outcomes: To understand the theoretical foundations and the expected advantages (and disadvantages) of the state-of-the-art deep learning architectures. To understand the main limitations of traditional training processes, and the techniques proposed for improving the training effectiveness. To be able to choose or design an effective architecture for a complex problem; to design a learning system for processing non-vectorial data (sequences, trees or graphs); to exploit advanced techniques for accelerating the convergence of the training process for a complex architecture, or for transferring the knowledge learned in a different domain to a new problem.   Computational paradigms for problem solving Learning outcomes: To understand the main computational paradigms (a.k.a. computational styles): imperative, functional, logic, object-oriented, event-driven, concurrent. To be able to analyze and solve practical problems by recurring to the most suitable computational paradigm.  Drafting of the Doctorate Thesis Learning outcomes: To be able to correctly and effectively structure and present the research methodology carried on and the obtained results. To demonstrate knowledge of the scientific state of the art. To show awareness of the relevance of theories and methods in relation to the research topic.  English language Learning outcomes: To be able to understand a wide range of demanding, longer clauses, and recognize implicit meaning. To be able to express ideas fluently and spontaneously without much obvious searching for expressions. To be able to use language flexibly and effectively for social, academic and professional purposes. To be able to produce clear, well-structured, detailed text on complex subjects, showing controlled use of organizational patterns, connectors and cohesive devices. To reach the CEFR C1 level (Effective Operational Proficiency, i.e. experienced enough to conduct PhD-related activities in English).  Exploitation of research results Learning outcomes: To have a knowledge of the basic concepts regarding knowledge transfer. To be able to conduct contract and collaborative research. To be able to begin a patenting or licensing process. To be able to begin the process of creating a new company.  Funding and management of research projects Learning outcomes: To have a knowledge about funding opportunities (where to find funding for your own research). To be able to write an effective research proposal for an international research call (how to get funding). To be able to manage research activities (you have been funded; and now?).  Independent learning Learning outcomes: To have a thorough knowledge of the literature and a comprehensive understanding of scientific methods and techniques applicable to his/her own research.  Innovation Management Learning outcomes: The course aims to provide students with the skills necessary to manage innovation processes within complex organizations. The course is structured to develop both technical skills and leadership skills, promoting an integrated approach to the management of innovation and the definition of business models in which, in addition to considering the technological aspects, the social, environmental and economic impacts are assessed, also taking into account the territorial sustainability of the proposed choices.  Innovative research methodologies in industrial settings 

Learning outcomes: The course aims to provide an in-depth understanding of advanced research methodologies currently applied in state-of-the-art industrial contexts. Students will develop skills to propose and implement innovative research projects, using techniques and tools to solve complex problems typical of industry. The course promotes collaboration between academia and industry to facilitate innovation.  Italian language Learning outcomes: To be able to understand the main points of clear standard input on familiar matters regularly encountered in work, school, leisure, etc. To be able to deal with most situations likely to arise while living in Italy. To be able to produce simple connected text on topics that are familiar or of personal interest. To be able to describe experiences and events. To reach the CEFR B1 level (Intermediate) at least.  Optimization Techniques for Engineers Learning outcomes: To be able to formulate real world optimization problems and incorporate uncertainty. To be able to implement optimization solvers. To be able to convert problems to their dual formulation. To be able to prove basic results on convex optimization.  Research secondment period abroad Learning outcomes: In addition to those of supervised research activities, to improve professional communication, presentation and interpersonal skills, networking skills in another research environment and social context. To develop resilience through coping with adversity or challenging circumstances. To increase awareness of and sensitivity to other cultural customs and norms.   Scientific Writing and Publishing Learning outcomes: To have a knowledge of the main types of technical and scientific documentation. To be able to conduct a bibliographic research. To be able to write a scientific article, a research proposal, a review, a technical presentation.  Supervised research activities Learning outcomes: To be able to demonstrate originality in the application of knowledge, together with a practical understanding of how research are used to create and interpret knowledge in his/her field. To have developed the ability to critically evaluate current research and research techniques and methodologies. To have self-direction and originality in tackling and solving problems. To be able to act autonomously in the planning and implementation of research. To have gained oral presentation and scientific writing skills. To have effectively disseminate the results of the research activity. 